**Variables â­**: They are used to store data and manipulate stored values. They can store any PL/SQL object such as variables, types, cursors, or subprograms. Variables can
include the characters `#` and `$`, as well as numbers and letters. Variables should not contain more than 30 characters. 

Here is an example of variable initialization:
```sql
DECLARE
v_myName VARCHAR2(20);
BEGIN 
DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('My name is: '||v_myName);
v_myName := 'John'; -->Here is variable inizialitation
DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('My name is: '||v_myName);
END;

```
 ðŸŸ¥***Variable Declaration***: Variables must be declared within the `DECLARE` section, in the following way:
 ```SQL
 variable_name [CONSTANT] TYPE[NOT NULL][:=initialization];
 ```
Any variable that is declared but not initialized defaults to the value `NULL`. 
The data type of the variable is incorporated in the `TYPE` section, which includes all data types existing in SQL and some existing in PL/SQL.

 âž¡ï¸Another way to assign a value to a variable is by using the `INTO` clause of the `SELECT` statement, for example:
 
 ```sql
 SELECT COUNT(*) INTO xBillNum FROM bills;
 ```
- `DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE`: It is used to return a text string in the script result.
- `%ROWTYPE`: Represents a partial row, table or view.
    - Column names cannot be used as identifiers.
    - `NOT NULL` if the variable must have a value.
- `%TYPE`: Declares a constant or variable, element, parameter to be of the same data type as a previously declared parameter.
    - The exact type of the table column does not need to be known.
    - If the definition and/or column type of the table is changed, the variable type automatically changes at runtime.
In the declaration, if we have the variable 'y', for example, declared as type `CHAR`, we can declare another variable 'j' as follows:
```sql
J y%TYPE;
```
And the same happens when declaring a structure that already exists, for example a table that exists and we have previously declared:
```SQL
J employee%ROWTYPE;
--> J will have the same structure as the employee table.
```
ðŸŸ¥**Boolean variable declaration**: PL/SQL allows comparing variables in both SQL statements and procedural statements. These comparisons are called boolean expressions. Boolean expressions consist of simple or complex expressions separated by relational operators.

These variables can be assigned the values of `TRUE`, `FALSE`, and conditional expressions use the logical operators `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT`.
Example:
```sql
DECLARE
flag BOOLEAN := FALSE;
BEGIN
flag := TRUE;
END;
```
ðŸŸ¥**LOB Variables**: They are designed to store large amounts of data.
With the LOB category of data types, you can store unstructured data blocks (such as text, graphic images, video clips, or sounds) with a size of up to 128TB.

>- `CLOB`: Stores large blocks of character data in the database.
>- `BLOB`: Stores large binary objects in the database.
>- `BFILE`: Stores large binary files.
>- `NCLOB`: Stores large blocks of `NCHAR Unicode data`, either single-byte or multibyte fixed-width, in the database.

ðŸŸ¥**Bind Variable**: They are created in the host environment. They can be used and manipulated across multiple subprograms. To create a bind variable, the command `VARIABLE` is used. You can reference the variable and view its value using the `PRINT`command.

- Example 1: In the following block, the bind variable b_resultado is used. The resulting output of the `PRINT` command is displayed below the code.
```SQL
VARIABLE b_result NUMBER
BEGIN
SELECT (SALARY *12) + NVL(COMMISSION_PCT,0) INTO :b_result
FROM employees WHERE employee_id = 144;
END;
/
PRINT b_result
```
- Example 2: In the following block, the bind variable b_emp_salary is used. The resulting output of the `PRINT` specifies the condition `WHERE salary := b_emp_salary` where the salary is assigned to the bind variable `b_emp_salary`.
```sql
VARIABLE b_emp_salary NUMBER
BEGIN
SELECT salary INTO :b_emp_salary
FROM employees WHERE employee_id = 200;
END;
\
PRINT b_emp_salary
SELECT first_name, last_name
FROM employees
WHERE salary := b_emp_salary;
```

